How-to guide on subscriptions and OGM (#3365)
neo4j/graphql: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/guides/ogm-subscriptions.adoc

[[ogm-subscriptions]]
= How to use the OGM with subscriptions

The Neo4j GraphQL Library can be used in conjunction with the Neo4j OGM in order to extend the Library's functionalities, or to take advantage of the xref:ogm/private.adoc[`@private` directive]. 

== Usage

This section shows you how to use subscriptions with the OGM inside custom resolvers.

=== Prerequisites

Considering the following type definitions:
[source, javascript, indent=0]
----
const typeDefs = `#graphql
    type User {
      email: String!
      password: String! @private
    }
`;
----

A subscriptions plugin instance to be shared between the Library and the OGM constructors:
[source, javascript, indent=0]
----
const subscriptionsPlugin = new Neo4jGraphQLSubscriptionsSingleInstancePlugin();
----

> And a server that supports subscriptions, as per the xref:subscriptions/getting-started.adoc#setting-up-server[subscriptions reference usage].

Author: The reference is not pointing to another section in this guide, but on a different page in the documentation (the page dedicated to Subscriptions).

> And a server that supports subscriptions, as per the xref:subscriptions/getting-started.adoc#setting-up-server[subscriptions reference usage].

Reviewer: Ah yes by "this guide" is the GraphQL docs. But now that you said it might look ambiguous! Maybe something like this

```suggestion
. Set up a server that supports subscriptions according to the xref:subscriptions/getting-started.adoc#setting-up-server[subscriptions reference usage].
```

=== Adding in the OGM

Two things here. 
As we want to utilize the `@private` marked field on the `User` type, we need to create the `User` model.
Also, in order to use the subscriptions, we need to pass in the subscriptions plugin instance to the OGM constructor:

[source, javascript, indent=0]
----
const ogm = new OGM({ typeDefs, driver, plugins: { subscriptions: subscriptionsPlugin } });
const Profile = ogm.model("Profile");
----

Make sure you initialize the ogm instance before using it by adding the following line to the `main()` function:
[source, javascript, indent=0]
----
await ogm.init();
----

> === The custom resolver

Author: Maybe `Adding a custom resolver` to match the title of the previous sub-section? (`Adding the OGM`)

> === The custom resolver

Author: ```suggestion
=== Adding a custom resolver
```

Custom resolvers can be utilized for multiple reasons: to perform data manipulation, perform checks or interact with 3rd party systems to list a few. In this case, we are only interested in creating a `User` node with the `password` field set.
Let's add for example a sign-up mutation:

[source, javascript, indent=0]
----
const resolvers = {
  Mutation: {
    signUp: async (_source, { username, password }) => {
      const [existing] = await User.find({
          where: {
              username,
          },
      });
      if (existing) {
          throw new Error(`User with username ${username} already exists!`);
      }
      const { users } = await User.create({
          input: [
              {
                  username,
                  password,
              }
          ]
      });
      return createJWT({ sub: users[0].id });
    },
  },
};
const typeDefs = `
   type Mutation {
        signUp(username: String!, password: String!): String!
    }
`
----

> === Putting it all together

Reviewer: Makes sense! But one thing that is a problem in the GraphQL docs is that there are too many sections, but I think we can still have it in the nav bar without turning it into a section. I think that's how:

```suggestion
[discrete]
=== Conclusion

Altogether, it should look like this:
```

async function main() {
  // initialize the OGM instance
  await ogm.init();

   // Apollo server setup with WebSockets
  const app = express();
  const httpServer = createServer(app);
  const wsServer = new WebSocketServer({
    server: httpServer,
    path: "/graphql",
  });

  // Neo4j schema
  const schema = await neoSchema.getSchema();

  const serverCleanup = useServer(
    {
      schema,
      context: (ctx) => {
        return ctx;
      },
    },
    wsServer
  );

  const server = new ApolloServer({
    schema,
    plugins: [
      ApolloServerPluginDrainHttpServer({
        httpServer,
      }),
      {
        async serverWillStart() {
          return Promise.resolve({
            async drainServer() {
              await serverCleanup.dispose();
            },
          });
        },
      },
    ],
  });
  await server.start();

  app.use(
    "/graphql",
    cors(),
    bodyParser.json(),
    expressMiddleware(server, {
      context: async ({ req }) => ({ req }),
    })
  );

  const PORT = 4000;
  httpServer.listen(PORT, () => {
    console.log(`Server is now running on http://localhost:${PORT}/graphql`);
  });
}
----

== Receiving the subscription events

> We first run the following subscription in order to receive `User` creation events:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, run the following subscription to receive `User` creation events:
```

[source, gql, indent=0]
----
subscription {
  userCreated {
    createdUser {
      email
    }
    event
  }
}
----

> At this point, running the sign-up mutation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then run the sign-up mutation:
```

[source, gql, indent=0]
----
mutation {
  signUp(email: "jon.doe@xyz.com", password: "jondoe") {
    email
    password
  }
}
----

> Results in the following event:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The results should look like this:
```
